This repository contains the following items:
1. README.txt: overview of the data
2. Codebook.txt: description of the data set
3. run_analysis.R: R script used to create the SecondData.txt
4. SecondData.txt: mean measurements by subject and activity

README:
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

First, training and test sets were merged into one data set, and subject and activity identifiers were additionally inserted. Activity identifiers were replaced with descriptive variable names (refer to Activity part of the Codebook). Column Names were replaced with descriptive variable names(refer to feature part of the Codebook). Then, each measurement was averaged for each subject and activity, resulting in the SecondData.txt.

R script used R version 4.3.3. on Windows 10 64-bit.
This script requires the dplyr package.
